2022-07-28-ST558-Blog5-Blog-Post
================
Owen Snyder
2022-07-28

# Final Blog Post

I have really enjoyed learning R this summer and have gotten much more
comfortable with the language. It’s a user-friendly programming language
and I really enjoy the community that R has. Being able to look up
documentation on different functions/packages is a great way to find
cool new ways to code in R. I will definitely be using R as my main
programming language because of how comfortable I am now, and I’m
excited to get started on more personal projects!

Now that I’ve had this course, the things I will do differently is
choosing better models/methods in statistical/machine learning. I
enjoyed learning about many different methods and now I have a better
idea of which methods should be applied to certain sets of
data/scenarios. That being said, I will be exploring many other methods
to see how well I can apply them to my own fields of interest.

In terms of what areas of statistics I am thinking about exploring
further, I will be researching many ways that I can continue to apply
statistics in finance. I have a good grasp of that already from previous
coursework but now that I am stronger in programming I think I will have
more success. An example of this would be exploring Principal Components
Analysis as it is applied to finance. On the data science side, I will
be exploring many more packages and functions in R and make sure that I
am staying up to date with my programming capabilities. I also want to
begin to learn Python and SQL.

Overall, this has been a great course and I am very glad I had the
opportunity to take it!
